---
layout: single
title: "GEBRA: Week 1, Setting clear goals"
date: 2024-10-01
tags: GEBRA
categories: GEBRA
published: true
author: Yongjun Song
---

{% assign past_date = '2024-01-09' | date: '%s' %}
{% assign current_date = site.time | date: '%s' %}
{% assign difference_in_seconds = current_date | minus: past_date %}
{% assign days_difference = difference_in_seconds | divided_by: 86400 | floor %}

This post is {{ days_difference }} days behind the actual project.

As a PM for the genomic analysis and interpretation tool GEBRA, one of the first crucial steps I took was to clarify the project's goals. Setting clear goals is essential for the success of any project. In this post, I want to emphasize the importance of setting clear goals.

## Why Goals Matter 

Having clear goals increases the chances of success:

$\text{Probability of success with goals} >= \text{Probability of success without goals}$

By formulating an equation, we can conceptualize factors that influence the likelihood of success. The model is based on the principle of "fast failure," where the project can iterate multiple times to improve. 

Assuming each project has an equal chance of success:
- Let $\text{p}$ be the probability of success for each individual project.
- Let $\text{n}$ be the number of project iterations.

The probability of achieving success increases with each project attempt:

${P_\text{success}} = \text{Probability of Single Success} + \text{Probability of Success After Failure}$

Which is:

${P_\text{success}} = {p_1} + {p_2} + \cdots + {p_{n-1}} + {p_n} = p + p(1-p) + \cdots + p(1-p)^{n-2} + p(1-p)^{n-1}$

Mathematically, it can be expressed as a sum of probabilities that reduces to:

${P_\text{success}} = (1 - (1-p)^n)$

Here, $\text{p}$ is the probability of success for a single project, and $\text{n}$ is the number of project attempts.

In this equation, ${P_\text{success}}$ increases as those two factors increase.

Simply put, 

${P_\text{success}} ∝ \text{n , p}$

1. the more attempts you have, the more likely you are to achieve success.
2. the more likely each project succeed, the more likely you are to achieve success.

and **setting goals increases both $\text{n}$ and $\text{p}$**.

## How Clear Goals Enhance Probability of a Project to Succeed

### Increasing $\text{n}$

The number of attempts $\text{n}$ is influenced by:

$\text{n} = {\text{Total Budget}}//{\text{Cost Per Project}}$

Where:

- $\text{Cost Per Project} = \text{Project Time} \times \text{Daily Expenditure}$
- $\text{Project Time}$ is determined by the amount of work needed to achieve the project's goals.

Assuming each project requires a certain $\text{Total Achievement}$, we have:

$\text{Total Achievement} = \text{Project Time} \times \text{Daily Achievement} + \text{Previous Achievement}$

Where:

$\text{Daily Achievement} = \text{Cohesion} \times \text{Individual Ability} - \text{Unnecessary Work}$

Substituting back, the $\text{Cost Per Project}$ becomes:

$\text{Cost Per Project} = \frac{\text{Total Achievement} - \text{Previous Achievement}}{\text{Cohesion} \times \text{Individual Ability} - \text{Unnecessary Work}} \times \text{Daily Expenditure}$

Therefore, $\text{n}$ increases with:

1. Greater Budget.
2. Projects requiring fewer achievements to complete but maintaining the same probability of success.
3. Accumulated previous achievements (e.g., references, API resources, prior work, etc).
4. Strong team cohesion.
5. High individual abilities of team members.
6. Minimization of unnecessary work.
7. Lower daily expenditure.

**Setting clear goals directly impacts factors 4 and 6.**

#### 1. Strengthening Team Cohesion

A shared understanding of goals promotes better communication, especially in cross-functional teams. For GEBRA, our project involves collaboration between medical genetics experts, web developers, BI engineers, and AI engineers. Without clear goals, each team might have a different perception of the end product. Defining goals such as "precise and reliable outcomes," "fast analysis," and "high usability" provides a concrete framework for all teams to align their efforts.

#### 2. Reducing Unnecessary Work

During the course of a project, it's natural to want to add new features or capabilities. However, without clear goals, it becomes difficult to discern whether these additions are beneficial or simply "nice-to-haves." Goals serve as a guiding star, helping decide whether a new feature is in line with the project’s purpose. When the team understands the goals, they are less likely to introduce features that stray from the core objectives.

### Increasing $\text{p}$


Goals act as benchmarks for determining the success or failure of a project. As Eric Ries highlights in The Lean Startup, clear goals enable "validated learning," allowing us to assess which aspects worked and which didn’t. Without defined goals, failure and success are indistinguishable. Clear goals help you identify successes and failures, allowing you to increase the probability of success ($\text{p}$) as projects continue.

In short, with clear goals:

${p_{n-1}} < p_{n}$


## How We Set Clear Goals

Our method involved establishing a persona for the product. The GEBRA team identified the following target user through experience and feasibility tests:

1. An expert in rare diseases,
2. Performs genomic tests regularly,
3. Needs to increase productivity.

From this persona, we set goals from business, user experience, and technological perspectives.


## Conclusion

In this post, we explored the importance of setting clear goals and how it can increase the probability of project success. We used mathematical models to illustrate the impact of project attempts and resource allocation on achieving success. Setting clear goals helps strengthen team cohesion, reduces unnecessary work, and provides a benchmark to measure progress and outcomes.

At GEBRA, we began our goal-setting process by defining user personas, which guided us in establishing clear objectives across business, user experience, and technological aspects of the project. I will share more details in the next post.

*Thank you for reading. Feel free to contact me by email if you have any thoughts or questions, feel free to leave a comment. See you in the next post!*  
