---
layout: single
title: "GEBRA: Week 0, Why do this?"
date: 2024-09-21
tags: GEBRA
categories: GEBRA
published: false
author: Yongjun Song
---

# GEBRA: Week 0, Why do this?

This post is 270 days behind the actual project.

Before we dive in:

3billion is a rare disease diagnostics founded on 2016.
It has been using this platform, GEBRA, since 2021. GEBRA is named after its purpose, **G**enetic **E**vidence **BR**owsing and **A**nalysis. It is a combination of analytic pipeline, annotation software, visualization tools, information aggregate, and reporting system. 

Through several experiences of powering this service to external users for funded projects, the company decided to open up the service.

For the first month of the project. I tried to set up the reason and the goal of the project.

In this post, I will discuss 
1. Why I needed the reason for the project and 
2. What the reason was.

*-on the next post, I will write about the **goal***

## Reason

Having reasons (a drive, back-up data, a feasibility test, or whatever you want to call it) and get them delivered to the team is the essential part of project setting. Clear and unquestionable reasons bring resilience to the team. A year is not short. A lot of things happen along the journey. The team can get into a trouble, an argue, a fight and get exhausted, even pessimistic. Having strong reasons will help your team overcome those issues.

### For our vision:

We believe we could provide more 1. **accurate** 2. **fast** and 3. **affordable** genomic diagnosis service for rare disease patients to end their diagnostic odyssey. They are spending **6 years on average** only to get diagnosed. It is our vision to help those who are suffering.

### On business persective:

On business perspective, GEBRA project is for business diversification of the company.

There are four reasons for the diversification

1. Growth.

Though 3billion is a fast-growing company(my hands are down for this, its revenue has increased three times over a year and continue increasing), launching a new service is one good method to create revenue.

3billion's main services are genomic tests, exome and genome, for rare disease patients. The company receives clinical samples(e.g. blood) from the patient, and analyze data generated from a sequence of experiments. Then through analysis and interpretation we provide valuable insight to doctors for their patients' conditions. 
*- For those who are not familiar with exome, this is a link to wikipedia [(wikipedia: exome)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exome)*

The point is that we are not the only company providing such services and there are institutions doing these tests on their own. Through experiences, we proved our theory that such institutions(including hospitals and research centers) require streamlined pipeline for productivity and analysis software for accuracy. GEBRA perfectly matches such needs, therefore we were sure that we can extend our service to the institutions through GEBRA.

2. Diversification

Sending out clinical samples across the boarder will likely to be prohibited in the future.

As 3billion is an international service provider, this trend is not a good news for us [(Perplexity: 'Genetic Testing Regulation: Overview')](https://www.perplexity.ai/page/genetic-testing-regulation-ove-Pn2xwYA9TyymvwOrbPQbYQ)

GEBRA is a good measure to spread such risk. The software complies with such regulation (e.g. GDPR of UE) and users will have complete control over their own and their patients' personal data including genomic data. This will be our ark for the future where no clinical samples or genomic data are allowed to across the boarder or to be handled by third party.

3. Economies of scope.

3billion has been using this platform internally for 4 years. Even though the platform required a bit of trimming as it was rooted on internal features, the cost required was tedious enough for us to make a decision to open the platform. 

Think of 'Slack'. Unlike it's enormous success of today, the messenger started as an internal service of a game startup. When the game failed, the startup decided to sell the messenger because, why not? It's already there.

4. Market Entrance.

3billion is always looking for chances to extend our businesses.

For market entrance, a software is unbelievably handy tool to leverage compared to genomic test we have been providing. 

|  | Genomic test | GEBRA |
|-------|--------|---------|
| Delivery | Fedex, takes days | data upload, takes hours |
| Cost | Human resources, Consumables, etc | Data processing fees |
| Product | Reports | Experiences whole process from A to Z |

Upload a data from your local, experience, and use it if you like it.

GEBRA is a complete tool by itself and at the same time it could be a great marketing tool.

Interestingly, as our project went on two large genomic analysis/interpretation service providers, SOPHIA genetics and CENTOGENE, withdrew their services from Europe and African regions.
 -SOPHIA genetics is retrieving because of pricing pressure. Please refer to [(SOPHiA GENETICS 2Q Corporate disclosure](https://www.sophiagenetics.com/press-releases/sophia-genetics-reports-second-quarter-2024-results/), [SIPHiA GENETICS 2Q Earnings call transcript)](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4711056-sophia-genetics-sa-soph-q2-2024-earnings-call-transcript)
 -CENTOGENE has been delisted from NASDAQ recently and likely to shrink or close down their business. Please refer to [(CENTOGENE: Inverstor Relations)](https://investors.centogene.com/)

 This would be a great chance for 3billion.

## Conclusion

Before the beginning of the project, we cleared reasons for doing this project to bring resilience and drive to the team.

The reason that it aligns with our vision. Helping rare disease patients. To provide more fast, accurate and affordable genomic tests for rare disease patients, GEBRA project was essential.

On business perspective, it's for the 1. Growth 2. Diversification 3. Economies of scope 4. Market Entrance.

On the next post, I will write how we set the goal.

Contact me on emails if you have anything to tell me.
